Alpakka Kafka 1.0 (#547)
akka/akka.github.com: blog/_posts/2019-02-28-alpakka-kafka-1.0-released.md

---
layout: post
title: Alpakka Kafka 1.0 Released
author: Martynas Mickevičius
short: We are happy to announce the release of Alpakka Kafka 1.0
category: news
tags: [releases]
---

Dear hakkers,

We are happy to announce the general availability of Alpakka Kafka 1.0. The artifacts are the same as the last release candidate 1.0-RC2.

Highlights of the release since 0.22 are:

> * Kafka Client has been upgraded to 2.1.0

Reviewer: 🥇

* No more `WakeupException`
* Alpakka Kafka consumers don’t fail for non-responding Kafka brokers anymore
* New `Committer.sink` and `Committer.flow` for standardised committing

> * Comitting with metadata

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Committing with metadata
```

* Java APIs for all settings classes

> * Alpakka Kafka testkit

Reviewer 3: Is it possible to link to github issues for some of these? Especially the "No more WakeupException" sounds mysterious if you're not already familiar ;)

Author: We just do a quick overview in the blog post as more detailed information is available in the release notes.

Reviewer 3: ah right makes sense didn't notice :+1:

> Some of these changes have been developed or initiated by the community. A big thank you for everyone involved!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of these changes have been developed or initiated by the community. A big thank you to everyone involved!
```

> Some of these changes have been developed or initiated by the community. A big thank you for everyone involved!

Reviewer 3: Would it be possible to generate a list of contributors?

Author: We do this in the release notes, for example:
https://doc.akka.io/docs/alpakka-kafka/current/release-notes/1.0-RC2.html#general-information
https://doc.akka.io/docs/alpakka-kafka/current/release-notes/1.0-RC1.html#general-information

> For detailed changes, credits, and a bit of the Alpakka Kafka connector history, take a look at the [release notes](https://doc.akka.io/docs/alpakka-kafka/current/release-notes/1.0.html) in the Alpakka Kafka connector documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed changes, credits, and more on the Alpakka Kafka connector history, please see the [release notes](https://doc.akka.io/docs/alpakka-kafka/current/release-notes/1.0.html) in the Alpakka Kafka connector documentation.
```
